# CS--230-Portfolio
CS-230 Operating Platforms Journal
Our client was The Gaming Room, and the task was to build up the Draw It or Lose It app from just being available on Android to also being web-based and available on multiple platforms. We had to figure out the environment that would best facilitate the development of the web-based version. The software requirements given by the client were that the game can have one or more teams involved, each team has multiple players assigned to it, and the game and team names be unique and allow users to check whether a name is in use while choosing a team name. Additionally, only one instance of the game can exist in memory at any given time. 
	I feel like the coding was the easiest for me particularly. As far as software design this was really the first time, I was involved with the design process of software development, which I have been told is really the majority of what a software engineer does. So, it was enlightening and very insightful to see that my future projects will not just be writing code but also an environment to run and continuously develop the code. While I worked hard on this project, the design template was new to me, and I think that perhaps I could have gone even more in-depth in the pros and cons chart. This would help the client decide if my suggestion was really what they needed and the best for their app development. 
	The most helpful and enlightening parts of designing and developing the code for this game were the design patterns and UML diagrams, and additionally different types of classes. These aspects were all new to me and very helpful in development. These three aspects were extremely helpful in organizing and developing the code as they worked as a guideline for development. Those pieces of code could only be developed in a certain way which must make it easy to collaborate over distances and many developers and get the same results. Additionally, the design template also helps in assuring that every developer and the client are on the same page. The executive summary and design constraints really help to lay out the can and can’t/hard to-dos for the client. A game app that aspires to be cross-platform would need speed, agility, and security.  It is important to keep in mind the user’s needs while developing because if the app does not perform well while in use it will for example be slow or pose a security risk. This will make the app unsuccessful and cost the client money. 
	Being new to designing software I feel like the design patterns were very helpful as well as the different classes such as entity class. These were informational and great guidelines as to how to develop the code for the software. Now that I know such things exist, I will be using them in the future as they apply to my projects. They were extremely helpful to keep the code concise and on task with what needed to be developed. Also, thinking about what the client needs as far as developing is a new concept for me and I found that enlightening as opposed to strictly just developing code to get an end result.

